Understanding the Global Routing System

Keywords

2. Background and related work


3. Data Sets

3a.  Data sets
5 RIRs (ARIN, RIPE NCC, APNIC, LAPNIC, AfriNIC), 5 sources for BGP data (Oregon from RouteViews, Amsterdam, Tokyo, London, Moscow from RIPE NCC),

3b.  Methodology

4. Characterizing allocated address blocks
First, we will chart the size of the BGP routing table over the 2003-2009 time interval, showing in one graph the number of announced prefixes alongside the number of allocated blocks. In another graph will be charted the amount of allocated address space compared to the amount of announced address space.
IPv4 allocation data for each week since 2003-01-01 from all RIRs except AfriNIC which started to post stats in 2005. Data is imported to PostgresSQL database for further processing. The total number of collected prefixes is more than 17 000 000.
* Impact of allocation of the global BGP routing table
Second, we will compare numbers of allocated and announced blocks of various prefix sizes and try to chart this over the whole time interval (e.g., 3D column histogram).

5. Evolution of route prefixes

5a.  Covering and covered prefixes
Fifth, we will determine the trends of the percentage of covering prefixes that 1) match, 2) fragment, and 3) aggregate allocations.
Sixth, we will show the dynamics of "Level 1" and "Level 2+" covered prefixes over time. Plus, we will give a comparison of covering prefixes to the number of allocations.  All these measurements concern the overall growth of the BGP routing table.

* Fragmentation
Third, we will build a graph showing both the approximated BGP table size and a calculated table size had there been no fragmenting of allocated blocks.

6. Routing Expansion by Geography
One other direction of our BGP routing system study deals with characteristics of the allocations and announcements themselves.  These are in the areas of geography and age.  Some of the new areas we will examine to monitor where allocation activity is happening, and for how long a time on average.  Thus, seventh, we will give a year-on-year comparison of prefix allocations and prefix announcements by major countries, including Russia, Japan, major countries of Asia, and broad regions such as the European Union, North America, and Africa.

7. Table Size Fluctuations

7a. Appearance/Disappearances
There is another dynamic occurring while the BGP table size grows steadily, and that concerns table entries appearing and disappearing, obviously with appearances outnumbering disappearances that account for the table growth.  Thus, fourth, we will chart both allocation/deallocations and table prefix appearances/disappearances on a monthly basis.

7b. Stability of Routing Table
Finally, eighth, we will provide a cumulative distribution function (CDF) of prefix ages, by which to draw conclusions about the stability of the routing table content. These will give information not so much about what is happening, but who is involved and for how long.

8. Related work

9. Conclusions

10. References
"Address Allocation and the Evolution of the BGP routing table", Zhiguo Xu, Xiaoqiao Meng et al, TR03009, March 2003.
"An Analysis of BGP Routing Table Evolution", Xiaoqiao Meng, Zhiguo Xu et al, TR030046, October 2003.
"IPv4 Address Allocation and the BGP Routing Table Evolution", Xiaoqiao Meng, Zhiguo Xu et al, ACM Computer Communication Review Special Issue on Internet Vital Statistics, January 2005.